The Joe Rogan experience.
Well, that was what I wanted to talk to you about.
One of the things like did anything shift once people started buying guns when
there was this, this, this moment where, what was the,
the number of gun sales went up, something crazy.
It was crazy like 40 something percent higher than that. Really? Yeah. Okay.
Let's let's find it. Let's guess I'm thinking it's like 40%. Jamie,
what do you think? What's your guess? What's the percentage.
Yeah, that sounds right. I bet I have a different question, but
I'm looking that up. Cause I see the statistic of 500,000 to 3 million,
but it's why would the center for disease control be doing that.
Really? Because, because they, they,
they want to make it a healthcare issue because if it's so that you hear them
say it all the time, they say this is a public health issue.
It's easier to sell gun control when you deem it a public,
no different than one think getting COVID and the vaccine. Why wouldn't it.
Be the ATF though?
Because it's easier to sell it as a public.
I know, but firearms is literally in their title.
And if you say it the way Biden says it, you switch pharmacy.
But, but you got Mitsubishi. Yeah. They're very good.
The one thing I will say about them and when I say them,
I mean the gun control lobby, which generally speaking,
and I got a lot of people who follow me who are more liberal.
They hate when I bring up the Democrats,
they hate it because they think I'm just trying to push this one-sided narrative
with respect to the Republicans. Know it, it is what it is.
If you look at all the gun control legislation,
you look at anybody who's pushing gun control.
The vast majority of them I'm talking 99% of the time
they are Democrats. Why do you think that is?
Because Democrats are the democratic ideology is based around bigger
government, right?
And so you can't necessarily exact your control over a group of people.
If they have something as self-reliant as a firearm,
do you really think that's what it is? I do think that to a degree, that is it.
I think it's that the ideology behind being the left wing person is you
want less violence.
And I think maybe you're more reluctant to actually take into account
real human nature and real the real potential breakdown of society that
would cause you to need a gun. I think they're more idealistic,
more utopian and perhaps more.
I think the people who vote Democrat believe that.
I think the people in power have a different agenda. I think,
I think from there, and honestly they are, they are the proverbial hammer.
So when you, when you're at, when you, when your fundamental ideology is,
are based around bigger government,
you think the solution for everything is more and more government. So if it's,
if a shooting happens right, and come on,
do we really think government is the most efficient entity at solving problems
in our country? No people complain about the government all the time,
but when you are the government and get something like a shooting and people are
like, Hey, they're do something about it. Or okay,
more government let's throw these laws out here, like restrict that, take that.
So they take on a more apparent role as opposed to an entity
designed to find true solutions to fix a problem. So they say, okay, well,
if, if this small number of people are killing people with guns,
take the guns away. It's just an oversimplified approach to, uh,
to any problem that comes up because they're not really about getting to the
true issue of the problem.
They just want to either look like they're doing something about it.
And so they'll just take the easiest approach or they'll try to scapegoated on
something because at the end of the day,
they realize that their ineptitude with respect to leadership is going to be put
on full blast, more specifically our inner cities. Right? Right.
So if the fast majority, I mean,
close to 80% of gun homicides in this country are coming from our inner cities
and we have 400 million guns in this country. It's really any percent near. Yes.
It's high, it's high. I'm talking gun homicides, right? Not,
not like gun deaths, um, because,
and it's driven by gang and drug violence. That's with gun deaths,
then you start including suicide. Exactly. Yeah. And so if you understand that,
that means that we're having a high concentration, love,
concentrated level of violence in very specific areas in this country. Right.
And as a result of that, you look at that and you say, okay,
well we have high country.
We have an era of concentrated violence in specific areas,
but yet we have guns all across the country that don't have this violence.
So clearly there's something else going on here other than the fact that there
are guns.
And then predominantly these inner cities are led by
Democrats. It just is what it is.
It's not politics control exact crazier.
So it stands to reason you're not doing something in these places that you
should be doing in order to deal with this violence. And then, you know, in,
in, in my research and in my study, when I was reading these books called,
I think it's like, uh, don't shoot or something like that.
I can remember exact title of it.
So I was reading this book and it was talking about this program called
ceasefire. Um, there is a program currently, now that's called cease fire,
but I don't think it's the same program. Um, or it's a former shell of itself.
But you know, the sky is criminologists.
He set out and I think it was done in Boston and they
were dealing with a lot of violence in their inner cities.
And so what they did is they put together a program was a very holistic approach
to the violence.
And essentially cops came together along with the community leaders and so forth
and so on. And they, they knew who the perpetrators were of this violence.
You gotta think about it.
Do we really honestly believe that the vast majority of these kids in the inner
city are killers? No,
it takes a very specific type of person to be a killer.
So a lot of the killings that are taking place in these places are done by very
hyper-focused group of kids in these areas.
And the vast majority of the time, the police know who these kids are,
police know who the perpetrators of this violence are.
And so what they did is they came together. They said, all right,
here's what we're going to do. And they, they brought,
they brought the leaders of the gangs and the kids,
the kids who were out on the streets so forth and so on came together. And Hey,
look, we're not going to say,
we're not going to arrest you for the drug dealing because I mean,
whatever happens, happens with respect to that. But if the, if the,
the bodies continue,
we're going to make life incredibly hard for you on these streets really hard.
And as time went on, the violence stopped.
The number went down because at the end of the day, you got to think about it.
A lot of these kids are carrying guns.
Not because they want to go and kill someone.
They're carrying guns because they're scared they grow.
They've grown up in an environment that is forced them to engage in the
lifestyle that they're in, generally speaking.
So if I'm a kid and even if I don't want to partake in this,
in this particular lifestyle, if that's the only thing that's around me,
and I know that any given point, my life could be threatened,
I'm going to carry a gun too. Or even if I'm a kid, that's like, look,
I just want to, I want to make some extra money. I'm not,
I'm not justifying drug dealer. I'm not justifying the selling of drugs.
But if I'm a kid who just says, you know what I want to make,
I want to sell money because I grew up the only,
the only form of success that I've seen, where the drug dealers in my area.
So I'm going to sell drugs. Of course, he's going to carry a firearm.
He's selling drugs.
There are going to be other people who are going to try to take his product so
forth. And so on doesn't necessarily mean he's a killer, right?
So when you focus entirely on the firearm and only on the firearm,
it doesn't do anything to actually deal with the issue. That's good.
The underlying issue that's happening in these places.
It's a socioeconomic issue. When you grow up in poverty, I'm sorry.
There's going to be a predisposition with respect to your area.
You're gonna have more violence there because what is the natural economy there?
Drugs.
That's one of the weirder aspects of gun violence is the reluctance to address
the violence in inner cities while focusing on the violence of the rare mass
shooter, because the inner city, like you look at the south side of Chicago,
it's a regular basis. Yeah. It's almost every weekend.
There's a bunch of homicides.
And I think the reason why is because like you, you actually touched on it.
How do you avoid inner city violence? You're.
Going to have to fix the.
Crown. I mean, just you, how do you avoid being inner city? Exactly. However,
when people feel like some random yo-yo can walk into a store and just start
shooting people, terrifies them, which is understandable.
It's totally understandable.
But none of these laws that they're proposing to anything to stop this,
they won't know. So it begs the question is the goal,
really to try to save lives or are they leveraging these shootings
to get this specific agenda that they have has.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.